Kurt Elizabeth Hummel is a major character on Glee.
Kurt is the first openly gay character introduced in the series.
In the beginning of the series, Kurt is in the closet until he comes out to Mercedes Jones and eventually to his father, Burt.
Kurt harbors a crush on Finn Hudson and tries to pursue him, despite Finn being straight.
Kurt even goes as far as to set up his father with Finn's mother, Carole, just so he could be closer to him, which backfires when Finn uses a homophobic slur against him during an outburst.
In the second season, Kurt meets Blaine Anderson and quickly falls in love with him.
During the season, Kurt is the target of bully David Karofsky, who turns out to be gay when he kisses Kurt unexpectedly.
Scared for his life, Kurt transfers to Dalton Academy with Blaine and they eventually pursue a relationship in Original Song.
During the third, fourth, and fifth seasons, Kurt's relationship with Blaine goes through several obstacles, such as when Kurt flirts with another guy or when Blaine cheats after Kurt moves to New York.
Sometime before Loser Like Me, Kurt and Blaine break up, but Kurt later realizes his mistake and sets on a quest to win Blaine back.
In A Wedding, Kurt finally marries Blaine.
Kurt is portrayed by Chris Colfer.
Kurt is introduced as the sassy, stylish student, who often gets thrown into the dumpster by Noah Puckerman and his football friends.
Kurt auditions for the Glee Club where he hits an impressive high note.
After Kurt's accepted, he is seen singing Sit Down, You're Rockin' The Boat, the first song the Glee Club sings together.
At the end of the episode, Kurt performs Don't Stop Believin' with the New Directions.
Kurt joins the New Directions in performing an inappropriate performance of Push It at the school assembly.
Kurt and Mercedes Jones form a friendship out of their fashion rivalry.
Mercedes also develops a crush on Kurt.
Kurt sees that Mercedes is lonely and he offers to cheer her up by taking her out shopping.
The cheerleaders, driven to stir up some petty drama for the Glee Club, manipulate Mercedes into thinking that Kurt is straight and has feelings for her.
When she confronts Kurt about their relationship, Kurt, still closeted, lies to Mercedes and tells her that he has feelings for Rachel, although the subject of his real crush is Finn.
Jealous and embarrassed, Mercedes throws a rock through the windshield of his car.
When Kurt eventually tells her that he is gay, she asks why he was not honest with her.
Kurt then admits that he is afraid and does not want anyone other than her to know the truth of his sexuality.
Kurt dancing to Beyonce's Single Ladies.
When Burt walks in on Kurt dancing to Single Ladies with Brittany Pierce and Tina Cohen-Chang, Kurt attempts to hide his sexuality by claiming that he has joined the football team and that he is dating Tina.
Desperate to gain his father's approval, Kurt actually "auditions" for the team.
Much to the surprise of Coach Tanaka, his father, and his teammates, Kurt turns out to be a spectacular place kicker and he scores the final point to win the first game of the season.
The players lift Kurt onto their shoulders after the winning kick; he looks to the stands where his father is proudly shouting that Kurt is his son.
After the game, Kurt nervously tells to his dad that he is gay.
Burt reveals that he has known since Kurt was three and asked for a pair of "sensible heels" for his birthday.
Even though he is not entirely comfortable with the situation, Burt reminds his son that he loves Kurt no matter what: that he will always support and be proud of him.
When former Glee club member April Rhodes joins the New Directions, Kurt is initially reluctant to accept her into the club, but is moved to the point of tears after she performs Maybe This Time.
April attempts to get him fully on her side by sneaking him alcohol (which he dislikes at first, but accepts after she tells him it will give him courage) and vintage male muscle magazines, which he happily accepts.
Emma Pillsbury, the school guidance counselor, eventually sees a haggard-looking Kurt walking through the hallway, drunk.
Kurt mistakes her for Bambi and vomits on her shoes.
During a mash-off between the boys and the girls, Kurt tries to work with the girls, only for Mr.
Schuester to make him cross back over.
The boys perform their mash-up rather enthusiastically, and Kurt feels obliged to tell the girls that all the boys took pseudoephedrine tablets from Will Schuester's wife, Terri, to enhance their performance.
When Sue Sylvester is named co-director of the Glee Club, Kurt is recruited by her to join the minority students to make an elite Glee Club: Sue's Kids.
They perform Hate on Me together.
He later performs Ride wit Me and Keep Holding On with the New Directions.
Finn debates throwing a slushie on Kurt.
Though his teammates will beat him up if he does not do it, Finn is torn.
Eventually Kurt slushies himself and asks Finn if he thinks a football player would do that for him.
Kurt is overjoyed at the idea of getting the chance to sing the song, but his hopes are dashed when Mr. Schuester immediately awards the solo to Rachel Berry.
Kurt relays his disappointment to his father and a furious Burt storms down to the school, demanding his son be given the chance to at least audition for the part.
Will agrees that it was unfair of him to ignore Kurt's interest in the piece and agrees to let both Rachel and Kurt audition for the solo.
It is decided that the club members will vote for the winner, which worries Rachel because she knows that the rest of the students like Kurt better.
Kurt, however, asks that the kids choose fairly on the merits of their musical talent, despite him being more popular and a better dresser.
Before the competition takes place, Burt receives an anonymous phone call at work calling Kurt a fag.
Kurt has intercepted similar calls for some time and is more disturbed at how badly his father takes the incident.
Kurt, not wanting to give his father more grief by singing a girl's song in public, throws the high note during the audition.
Burt is disappointed that his son took a dive for his sake, but is touched by his actions, calling Kurt "strong" like his mother had been.
Kurt responds by saying that his father is more important than stardom.
Kurt later performs Proud Mary with the rest of the club.
When the Glee group is split into pairs and asked to sing ballads to their partners, Kurt and Finn are assigned as partners.
Finn of course, is reluctant to pair with a boy, for fear of being pegged as gay.
Kurt however, is overjoyed at the idea and attempts to flirt with Finn through the guise of friendship and giving advice for Finn's personal problems.
His plan works in that he and Finn become closer friends, but backfires in other ways.
In the end, Kurt hints to Finn that he has feelings for the other boy, with his ballad choice I Honestly Love You, but Finn seems to misunderstand.
Kurt's feelings for Finn continue to lead him to behave in a manipulative fashion when he manipulates Rachel with false advice on how to win over Finn, after Quinn has asked him to help seperate Rachel and Finn.
Kurt convinces Rachel to take on a sultrier look, like the character Sandy in Grease.
While the look does get Finn's attention, Finn admits that he prefers Rachel as she normally is.
Rachel then confronts Kurt, who admits that they are both in love with the same man and that as long as Quinn is in the picture, neither of them will ever have him—Kurt less so because Finn is not gay.
In the end, although not quite friends, both have bonded over their shared heartbreak.
Kurt is seen wearing a blonde wig and dancing with Quinn during the group performance of the mash-up Hair/Crazy in Love.
It is Kurt who suggests the group not to fight against Glee Club's cut from the yearbook, due to all the previous years' Glee Club photos being defaced by the rest of the student body.
But in the end, the kids allow themselves to be photographed for the yearbook (which goes on to be defaced as usual).
Kurt also joins the rest of the group in taping a mattress commercial.
Kurt performs back-up vocals during Jump.
Despite Sue releasing their setlist, New Directions win Sectionals.
Kurt is later seen performing My Life Would Suck Without You after the competition.
Kurt is seen re-enacting his Single Ladies routine with Brittany and Tina.
Kurt is among the people who confront Rachel on her relationship with Jesse St.
James, the lead singer of their rivals Vocal Adrenaline.
When Will grows concerned about how the boys are treating the girls, Kurt suggests that all of them perform Madonna numbers to strengthen the girls' sense of self-worth.
Sue enlists the help of Kurt and Mercedes to give her a makeover, and the three of them recreate the Vogue video.
Instead of changing herself, Sue decides to change others and offers Kurt and Mercedes a spot on the Cheerios.
At the end of the first episode, Kurt and Mercedes receive solos in the episode's closing number, Like a Prayer.