Samuel "Sam" Evans is a major character on Glee.
Sam is an alumnus of William McKinley High School.
Sam makes his first appearance as a new sophomore in Audition, the first episode of Season Two, and soon joins the New Directions.
After unsuccessful relationships with Quinn and Santana, Sam ultimately begins dating Mercedes.
They break up after Sam moves out of state following Season Two, but after returning to Lima in Hold on to Sixteen, Sam begins working on trying to rekindle things with her.
However, Mercedes ultimately decides against it, due to the guilt of having cheated on her new boyfriend Shane.
In Season Four, Sam starts dating Brittany, which leads to severe tension between Sam and Brittany's ex-girlfriend Santana.
Brittany ultimately breaks up with Sam as she is about to leave high school.
Around the same time, Sam befriends Blaine, who develops a temporary crush on Sam, and Tina, with whom Sam shares a single kiss in Trio.
After graduating in New Directions, Sam moves to New York to pursue a career in modeling.
At the Big Apple Sam gets back together with Mercedes for a third time.
However, even this relationship fails when Sam struggles to cope with Mercedes' celibacy vows.
Sam moves back to Lima after a successful photo session in The Untitled Rachel Berry Project.
As of Loser Like Me, Sam is now Coach Beiste's assistant football coach at WMHS.
During the last season of the show, Sam helps Kurt and Rachel find new members for the glee club, Sam is also present at Brittany's, Santana's, Kurt's and Blaine's double wedding and Sam also becomes Rachel's boyfriend, though it's later seen that they have broken-up.
In Dreams Come True, Sam becomes New Directions' new coach after Will is named Principal and the school becomes Arts-orientated.
Five years later, it is revealed that Sam has a new girlfriend but is still texting Mercedes.
Sam is a regular recurring character during the second and third season before promoted to main character in Season Four and remaining in that position for the rest of the series.
Sam is portrayed by actor and musician Chord Overstreet.
Sam shows some interest in the Glee club when they are singing Empire State of Mind in the courtyard by tapping his foot along with Sunshine who is also enjoying the performance.
Finn is later seen hanging up posters to recruit new New Directions members in the boy's locker room and Sam hears Sam singing Every Rose Has Its Thorn by Poison in the shower and Finn explains that Sam had an amazing singing voice.
Later, when Finn and Artie start talking about Artie joining the football team to get Tina back, Finn agrees to help Artie if Sam helps recruit Sam to audition for Glee Club because Sam will be a good addition to New Directions.
Sam agrees because Finn is the popular quarterback.
Sam introduces himself to Puck, Finn, Artie, and Mike, informing them about what Sam likes, and tells them that Sam has dyslexia and has difficulty in math class.
Sam chooses Billionaire as his audition song.
After Finn is kicked off the football by the new coach, Shannon, for trying to get Artie on the team, Sam doesn't come to the glee club audition.
When questioned about this by Finn, Sam says that Sam wanted to come, but didn't want to risk being alienated the way Finn has been, since as the new guy at McKinley Sam already feels like an outsider.
As Sam exits, Sam reveals that Sam is the new quarterback, news that greatly disheartened Finn.
After Finn asks Jesus to let Sam be the quarterback again, Finn gives Sam directions instead of listening to Coach Beiste.
Sam goes along with Finn's directions, but after doing this, Sam dislocates his shoulder.
Finn then returns to the position of quarterback, but feels guilty and sorry for Sam.
Will Schuester manages to convince Sam to reconsider joining the glee club, particularly since Sam can't play much football following his shoulder injury.
Sam's attractiveness is immediately noted by the girls in the group, and also by Kurt Hummel, who thinks Sam plays on "team gay" because of his hair, and asks Sam to sing with Sam as his duet partner.
Sam is a bit taken aback by Kurt's upfront nature, and the fact that Kurt accuses Sam of dying his hair, but still agrees to sing the duet.
Finn, however, remembering how Kurt behaved towards Sam during Kurt's crush on Finn the previous year, worries that Sam will be bullied for singing with another man, and attempts to get Kurt and Sam to back-out of the duet, because Sam is afraid that Sam will leave glee club after being bullied.
Sam refuses, stating that Sam gave his word to Kurt and wasn't going to back out.
Kurt meanwhile is infuriated by what Sam deems to be Finn's homophobia, but after talking to his father, realizes that it might not be fair to Sam.
The next day Sam approaches Sam in the showers and ends the partnership, much to Sam's confusion.
As Sam leaves, Kurt again in a flirtatious manner accuses Sam of dying his hair, which Sam halfheartedly denies once more.
Sam experiences the downside of being in glee when Azimio and Karofsky throw a slushie in his face.
This is witnessed by Quinn, who, remembering how she felt the year prior, helps Sam clean up in the girl's washroom and there is an instant chemistry between the pair.
Sam compliments Quinn's eyes in the Na'vi language from the movie Avatar.
Later on, Sam asks Quinn to be his partner for the duet competition, but as they talk Sam tries to kiss her.
Initially, she rejects Sam, citing her need to get her life back to normal after the events of the previous year (pregnancy).
Still, eventually she agrees to be his partner (after being manipulated by Finn and Rachel) and together they sing Lucky by Jason Mraz and Colbie Caillat.
With Finn and Rachel's vote, they win a free dinner at Breadstix together.
Quinn is initially put off by Sam clumsy attempts at talking to her, and awkwardly the conversation turns towards Quinn's past pregnancy and keeping secrets.
Sam admits to having one himself, and Quinn immediately jumps on this, asking if Sam is gay as many of them suspect.
Sam denies this casually, and claims his true secret is that Sam dyes his hair with lemon juice.
Sam reveals that Sam previously attended an all-boys boarding school, which Sam claims explains why Sam is so awkward in talking to girls.
The two bond and Quinn pockets the gift certificate they won, stating that Sam should pay for dinner, as this is their first official date.
Sam is cast in the role of Rocky in the Rocky Horror Show.
Later in the weight room, Sam and Finn discuss their insecurities with their bodies.
Though Sam adheres to a strict and healthy diet, throughout the episode Sam displays signs of having an eating disorder or body dysmorphic disorder, stating that if Sam eats a hot dog or misses a workout, Sam hates himself for a few days.
During a dress rehearsal, Sam walks onto the stage wearing a pair of very short gold shorts.
Sam asks Emma Pillsbury if Sam can wear "board shorts" but his request is denied.
Sam is later pulled out of the musical and replaced by Will.
Sam initially believes that the reason Sam was pulled out was because of his complaints about his costume, but Mr.
Schuester assures Sam that it has nothing to do with Sam's body or his complaints.
Sam falls into a funk and confides in Finn that Sam feels fat, despite Finn's protests that Sam's body is fine.
Sam advises Finn to be confident with his own body, but Finn seems to take Sam's words the wrong way, as Sam is nearly suspended after walking around the school in his underwear.
After the musical is canceled, Mr.
Schuester apologizes to Sam and Finn for making them feel uncomfortable and insecure.
Sam later performs The Time Warp with the rest of the New Directions.
Sam and Finn are in cold tubs in the locker room and both discuss how they control their sexual urges while being with their girlfriends who abstain from sex.
Finn tells Sam that Sam visualizes something that turns Sam off, encouraging Sam to use images of Coach Beiste in compromising positions to cool off during make-out sessions with Quinn.